---
layout: blog
tags: null
author: robert_harker
published: false
title:  "OpenSMC CodeAcross 2016 Press Release"
date:   2016-02-23 23:30:00
---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

**San Mateo County Volunteers Join in Global Day of Civic Innovation**

REDWOOD CITY, CA (February 23, 2015) - On Sunday, March 6th, OpenSMC will be hosting the San Mateo County CodeAcross Civic Hackathon. This event is part of Code for America's fifth annual CodeAcross—an international weekend of locally held events. There are more than 50 events being held in communities around the globe. Each event is unique, but all share the theme of “Let’s take the data beyond transparency,” and focus on using data to enhance communities.

“CodeAcross is an opportunity for citizens to participate in building stronger, more open and engaging governments where they live, but also to be connected to a global network of citizens who are doing the same thing around the world,” said Catherine Bracy, Code for America’s director of community organizing. “The goal is to build long-lasting communities who can collaborate with their governments to make cities work better.”

OpenSMC is San Mateo County's new Code for America Brigade—a local group of community-minded technologists, organizers, and volunteers joining together to work on open data, web and mobile apps to help the county's communities.

CodeAcross San Mateo County will debut the 1.0 release of OpenSMC's 2016 Free Flu Clinic app on both Android and iOS. The app displays local free flu clinics near you on your smartphone, providing dates, times and location information in the palm of your hand.

OpenSMC's other projects include:
*CycleSMC: An app to track bike rides to aid in bike route planning and upgrades, adapted from Code for Philly projects
*openN11: Information about all of the services and locations of county/city services
*SMC in Progress: Housing civic engagement app, adapted from Code for San Francisco's project
*Adopt-a-drain: Maintenance reporting app, adapted from Code for Boston projects

Come learn about civic hacking and public open data. Check out OpenSMC's projects and people. Find out what you can contribute.  Light refreshments provided.

**WHO:** coders, writers, designers, map makers, community organizers, and anyone interested in making San Mateo County a better place with technology<br>
**WHEN:** March 6th, 2016, 12:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m.<br>
**WHERE:** Redwood City Library, 2nd Floor Community Room, 1044 Middlefield Rd, Redwood City, CA 94063<br>
**WHAT:** an afternoon of civic hacking, organized by OpenSMC, San Mateo County's new Code for America Brigade

**About OpenSMC**<br>
Founded in 2016, OpenSMC (San Mateo County) is among the newest Code for America Brigades.  Started as the SMC Civic Tech meetup group, OpenSMC has evolved into a dedicated community of volunteers working to bring 21st century solutions to 20th century government. OpenSMC is interested in both "hacking" (coding) and publishing open data.  OpenSMC welcomes all age groups from millennials to baby boomers.

"Most modern apps require both coding to create the app, and open data to provide the information the apps display. OpenSMC volunteers are working on both."  -Robert Harker, OpenSMC.

http://opensmc.org/events/codeacross

**About Code for America**<br>
Founded in 2009, Code for America (CfA) is a national nonprofit that partners with local governments and citizens to foster civic innovation. By working to reinvigorate civic participation, accelerate the civic startup marketplace, facilitate collaboration between government leaders, and build new tools that enhance and strengthen communities, CfA is helping governments solve old problems in new ways. CfA is working towards a government by the people, for the people, that works in the 21st Century. For more information, watch Founder Jennifer Pahlka’s TED talk: codeforamerica.org/TED or go to codeforamerica.org.

http://codeforamerica.org/codeacross

