---
layout: hacknotes
tags: null
author: robert_harker
published: true
title:  "Hack Night 18"
lead: "Welcome Back New Members"
---

Tonight's hack night was great.  A couple of first-timers and many new members returning.  It is great to see you again.  Over a dozen people working on their projects.

The UrbanAg  \(github: [ssmc-agriculture-zoning](https://github.com/opensmc/ssmc-agriculture-zoning)\) project made significant progress with researching and collecting the zoning information for the 27 cities, towns, and unincorporated areas of the county.  I think we may be nearing the halfway mark.  A new member contributed Foster City.  A quick one meetup task.  Thanks.

The service finder team spent time with new members talking about the code that builds the app: static HTML and JavaScript.  Project on-boarding of new users.

I started a new project, LocalFreeWeb.  This is a Code for San Francisco (C4SF) project.  Every bus stop has a unique location number.  The app allows anyone to text the stop number to a Twilio SMS number and get back information about the 3 closest locations with free Internet accessible computers.  This should be a slam dunk.  Some static HTML changes and setting up the Twilio/Heroku/CartoDB app server.

[Hack-SMC](https:hack-smc.org) is in 3 weeks.  We are working on setting up useful datasets for some of the hackathon challenges so a team can get to work quickly.  The [California Department of Social services](https://secure.dss.ca.gov/CareFacilitySearch/Home/DownloadData) has rich location data for all of the providers it licenses.  Child care, elder care, in-home care.  Maybe an adaptation of the Flu Clinic app?

It was great seeing new members again.  Hope to see you back next week.  

Thank you OpenGov for hosting OpenSMC in a great hack space.
